Let's get started doing some setup for this next jazz project.
Now, all we really have to do is install a couple of dependencies, write out a script or two, and
that's how we get started with next JS.
There's no real generator or anything like that that we have to run or install.
So I'm going to get started by going over to my terminal.
I'm going to make sure I'm inside of my ticketing directory.
I'm going to create a new folder inside this directory.
Called Client.
I'll then change into client and I'm going to generate a packaged JSON file inside there by running
90 minute dash.
Why?
There's my packages out json file.
I'm then going to install three different dependencies.
I'm going to get react.
React, Dom.
And next.
And installing these is just going to take a moment or two.
So while that's running, I'm going to flip back over to my terminal or some of my code editor, and
we're going to start to write out a little bit of code inside this new client directory right here.
Inside the client directory.
I'm going to first make a new folder.
Called Pages.
Inside this pages directory, we're going to end up writing out several different JavaScript files.
Inside of each of these files, we are going to export a React component.
Now, if you're used to making use of React, you might have used React router in the past.
React router is all about setting up some routing configuration inside of a JavaScript file, but next,
JSP works in a very different way.
In order to set up routing inside of a next project, we're going to have a very particular set of routes
or files with very particular file names inside this page's directory.
So this page is folder.
Right here is a very magic folder.
Whenever XSS first starts up, it's going to read all the files that we list out inside there and depending
upon the file names and possibly some folders that we create inside there as well.
Next JS is going to interpret those file names as being distinct routes that we can visit inside of
the application.
So let me give you a quick example.
Inside of the pages directory, I'm going to make a new file called Index.
And I'll make another file called How About Banana J's?
So in both of these different files, we're going to create a component and then export it as the default
export.
I'm going to first start off inside of Banana JS at the very top.
I'm going to do an export default.
And I'm going to return an H one.
That says Banana.
And then going to copy this.
I'm going to save this file.
I'm going to go over to indexes.
The file we just created.
I'll paste inside there and I'll change this one to instead say landing page.
So now whenever we start up our project using next next is going to take a look at the contents of pages.
It's going to see there are two files inside of here named indexes.
If we have a file named index that will be used as the root root of our application.
So now any time we try to visit next JJ's or visit this application, we should see the content landing
page on the screen.
If we try to instead navigate to a root of banana.
So in other words, something like local host banana, we should see an h one of banana up here on the
screen instead.
So again, file names map up to root names.
And actually test this thing out.
We need to be able to start up our project to start up a next project.
We're going to go into our package JSON file and we're going to manually write in a couple of scripts
inside of here.
So again, with next JZ, we don't get any generators or anything like that.
We just do all this set up very manually because it's a very small amount of setup.
So I'm going to delete the script section or delete the test script inside there, and I'll replace
it with a dev script.
Whenever we run this dev script, we're going to execute next inside of our project, and that's pretty
much it.
So now to start up our project, we'll go back over to our terminal and run NPM.
Run Dev.
To run next.
Now, just to be really clear, right now, we are executing or starting up next outside of our Kubernetes
cluster.
We are going to be running next inside of Kubernetes.
This is just a very quick demonstration just to get you familiar with this kind of pages, style routing.
Okay.
So back inside of my client directory, I'll do an NPM run, Dev.
That's going to start up our server on localhost 3000.
Now remember, you might already have some stuff running on localhost, 3000 from stuff we did earlier
inside this course.
So if you get some kind of port error or something like that, some kind of start up error, you're
going to need to find whatever process you're still running on Local 3000 and stop it.
So I'm then going to go over to my browser and navigate to Local 3000.
And again, I'm going to see landing page on the screen.
Because any time we come to a route.
By default, index dogs will be loaded inside of the pages directory.
But now if you go to localhost 3000 slash banana, we'll see banana instead.
So really the only thing we got to keep in mind here around next is that these file names and some of
the different folders we create inside of here as well, they're going to map up to actual routes that
we can visit inside the browser.
Okay.
So now that we've got the basics of next put together, quick pause and we'll continue development in
just a moment.